---
title: Internship Week 3
categories: [IDE202, Week 3]
tags: [IDE202]
---

# Week 3 (28/09/2024 - 06/10/2024)

## Introduction

Welcome everyone! It's the third week of my internship, and it's been a productive time here at iBEST, working alongside knowledgeable employees. We finally completed the prototype for the mobile and tablet views of the iBEST Institute website, and the clients approved the UI design. Alongside this, I was also designing the schema for the cocoCommercial website, a website builder I proposed for my capstone project in the third semester.

## Highlights

1. Studied UI design and its implementation, focusing on creating UI components like cards using concepts from [Material Design](https://material.io/).
   
2. Successfully redesigned the Courses subpage under the Services section, applying the card design concept I learned.

3. Started using [TryHackMe](https://tryhackme.com/), an online platform for learning cybersecurity. I installed VM Fusion for Kali Linux and am excited to dive deeper into this field.

4. Completed one problem under the Divide and Conquer Algorithm — the Maximum Subarray Problem — which is similar to the [Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/) problem on LeetCode. It was interesting to see multiple ways to solve and analyze the problem. (Personal Achievement)

## Learning Experience

1. Began studying Object-Oriented Programming through [FreeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/) on YouTube, aiming to use it in future AI projects.
   
2. Started reading Docker documentation, with plans to implement it in my capstone project.

3. Read and understood the concept of [Database Multi-Tenancy](https://medium.com/@harish.somasundar14/database-multi-tenancy-7c8dbe848d50), which is a very efficient method for sharing a single database among multiple merchants — in my case, the shop owners for the capstone project.

## Industry Insights

1. I realized that different tools are suited for different tasks. For example, I initially thought React and Next.js could handle all frontend development, but that’s not always the case.

2. When building new projects, it’s crucial to understand three main points:

   * Find open-source resources for reference and to gain a better understanding of what you want to implement.
   
   * List all the things you need to store when creating a data-centric project, and understand how to store that data.
   
   * After determining what and how to store the data, cross-check whether the database schema supports the features you plan to implement.
   
   * Create a prototype of your project as a reference for building the frontend.

## Challenges

1. Understanding color combinations for UI design.

2. Finding the right resources, especially for designing the database schema for the capstone project.

3. Listing what to store, determining which tables to create, and mapping the relationships between them.

## Next Week's Plan

* Complete the desktop prototype design by Wednesday.

* Conduct a group meeting for the capstone project to cross-check whether the database schema aligns with our required features.

* Study third-party authentication and attempt to implement Docker for the capstone project.
